_pages/books.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: "Books"
author: "Robert"
permalink: /books/
---

Books, textbooks, papers and scripts that i think are worth recommendig. 

## Mathematics

First Course in Probability [link](https://www.amazon.com/First-Course-Probability-9th/dp/032179477X)

Introduction to Probability for Computing [link](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~harchol/Probability/book.html)

A Programmer's Introduction to Mathematics [link](https://pimbook.org/)

Paul's Online Notes [link](https://tutorial.math.lamar.edu/)

All You Wanted to Know about Mathematics but Were Afraid to Ask [link](https://www.math.cmu.edu/~jmackey/151_128/bws_book.pdf)

An Infinitely Large Napkin [link](https://venhance.github.io/napkin/Napkin.pdf)

An Infinite Descent into Pure Mathematics [link](https://infinitedescent.xyz/dl/infdesc.pdf)

The Art and Craft of Problem Solving [link](http://www.gang.umass.edu/~franz/Paul_Zeitz_The_Art_and_Craft_of_Problem_SolvingBookosorg.pdf)

## Physics

Haliday, Resnick, Krane [link](https://www.amazon.com/Physics-1-Robert-Resnick/dp/0471320579)

The Theoretical Minimum [link](https://knzhou.github.io/writing/Minimum.pdf)

Teach Yourself Physics: a travel companion [link](https://www.amazon.com/Teach-Yourself-Physics-travel-companion/dp/3948763003)

How to become a GOOD Theoretical Physicist [link](https://www.goodtheorist.science/index.html)
## Computer Science

### Machine learning

#### Theory oriented

Understanding Deep Learning [link](https://udlbook.github.io/udlbook/)

Deep Learning: Foundations and Concepts [link](https://issuu.com/cmb321/docs/deep_learning_ebook)

The Mathematical Engineering of Deep Learning [link](https://deeplearningmath.org/)

REINFORCEMENT LEARNING AND OPTIMAL CONTROL [link](https://web.mit.edu/dimitrib/www/RLbook.html)

Probabilistic Machine Learning: An Introduction [link](https://probml.github.io/pml-book/book1.html)

Probabilistic Machine Learning: Advanced Topics [link](https://probml.github.io/pml-book/book2.html)

#### Practice

Grokking Deep Learning [link](https://www.amazon.com/Grokking-Deep-Learning-Andrew-Trask/dp/1617293709)

Deep Learning for Coders [link](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-Coders-fastai-PyTorch/dp/1492045527)

Deep Learning with PyTorch [link](https://www.manning.com/books/deep-learning-with-pytorch)

Dive into Deep Learning [link](https://d2l.ai/)

### Compilers
An Incremental Approach to Compiler Construction [link](http://scheme2006.cs.uchicago.edu/11-ghuloum.pdf)

Modern Compiler Implementation in ML [link](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~appel/modern/ml/)

Essentials of Compilation [link](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262048248/essentials-of-compilation/)

Linkers and Loaders [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linkers-Kaufmann-Software-Engineering-Programming/dp/1558604960)

### Algorithms and Data structures

Data Structures for Data-Intensive Applications [link](https://cs-people.bu.edu/mathan/publications/fnt23-athanassoulis.pdf)

Open Data Structures [link](https://opendatastructures.org/)

Competitive Programming [link](https://cpbook.net/)

Competitive Programmer’s Handbook [link](https://cses.fi/book/book.pdf)

Algorithms [link](https://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/teaching/algorithms/)

Algorithms: Prallel and Sequential [link](https://www.umut-acar.org/algorithms-book)

Advanced Algorithms and Data Structures [link](https://freecontent.manning.com/marcello-la-rocca-advanced-algorithms-and-data-structures/)

### Databases

Architecture of a Database System [link](https://dsf.berkeley.edu/papers/fntdb07-architecture.pdf)

SQLite Database System Design and Implementation [link](https://www.sqlite.org/books.html)

Database System Concepts [link](https://www.amazon.com/Database-System-Concepts-Abraham-Silberschatz/dp/1260084507)

Designing Data-Intensive Applications [link](https://www.amazon.com/Designing-Data-Intensive-Applications-Reliable-Maintainable/dp/1449373321)

### Operation Systems

#### System programming

Beej's Guide to Network Programming [link](https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/)

Beej's Guide to C Programming [link](https://beej.us/guide/bgc/)

System Programming coursebook [link](https://github.com/illinois-cs241/coursebook)

Programming from the Ground Up [link](https://www.amazon.com/Programming-Ground-Up-Jonathan-Bartlett/dp/1616100648)

Hacker's Delight [link](https://www.amazon.com/Hackers-Delight-2nd-Henry-Warren/dp/0321842685)

Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective [link](https://www.amazon.com/Computer-Systems-Programmers-Perspective-3rd/dp/013409266X)

The Linux Programming Interface [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linux-Programming-Interface-System-Handbook/dp/1593272200)

Advanced Programming in the UNIX Environment [link](https://www.amazon.com/Advanced-Programming-UNIX-Environment-3rd/dp/0321637739)

#### Administration

How Linux Works [link](https://www.amazon.com/How-Linux-Works-Brian-Ward/dp/1718500408)

The Linux Command Line [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linux-Command-Line-2nd-Introduction/dp/1593279523/ref=pd_bxgy_img_sccl_1/143-0695118-1847207?pd_rd_i=1593279523&psc=1)

#### Theory

Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces [link](https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/)

#### Implementation

xv6: a simple, Unix-like teaching operating system [link](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.S081/2020/xv6/book-riscv-rev1.pdf)

The little book about OS development [link](https://littleosbook.github.io/)

Writing a Simple Operating System — from Scratch [link](https://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~exr/lectures/opsys/10_11/lectures/os-dev.pdf)

#### Linux kernel

Understanding the Linux Kernel [link](https://www.amazon.com/Understanding-Linux-Kernel-Third-Daniel/dp/0596005652)

Linux Device Driver Development [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linux-Device-Driver-Development-development/dp/1803240067)

Linux Device Drivers [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linux-Device-Drivers-Jonathan-Corbet/dp/0596005903/ref=pd_sbs_sccl_3_4/143-0695118-1847207?pd_rd_i=0596005903&psc=1)

The Linux Kernel Module Programming Guide [link](https://sysprog21.github.io/lkmpg/)

A Heavily Commented Linux Kernel Source Code [link](http://www.oldlinux.org/download/ECLK-5.0-WithCover.pdf)

### Other

The Art of HPC [link](https://theartofhpc.com/)

Web Browser Engineering [link](https://browser.engineering/)

Ray Tracing in One Weekend [link](https://raytracing.github.io/books/RayTracingInOneWeekend.html)

Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs [link](https://web.mit.edu/6.001/6.037/sicp.pdf)

How to Design Programs [link](https://www.amazon.com/How-Design-Programs-Introduction-Programming/dp/0262534800/ref=pd_bxgy_img_sccl_2/143-0695118-1847207?pd_rd_i=0262534800&psc=1)

Elegant Objects [link](https://www.yegor256.com/elegant-objects.html)

The Little Book of Semaphores [link](https://greenteapress.com/wp/semaphores/)


#### Programming Languages

OCaml Programming: Correct + Efficient + Beautiful [link](https://cs3110.github.io/textbook/ocaml_programming.pdf)

C++ Crash Course [link](https://www.amazon.com/C-Crash-Course-Josh-Lospinoso/dp/1593278888)

Modern C++ Programming [link](https://github.com/federico-busato/Modern-CPP-Programming)

## Biology

Campbell Biology [link](https://www.amazon.com/Campbell-Biology-11th-Lisa-Urry/dp/0134093410/ref=pd_bxgy_img_sccl_1/143-0695118-1847207?pd_rd_i=0134093410&psc=1)

## Finance & Economics

Economics in One Lesson [link](https://www.amazon.com/Economics-One-Lesson-Shortest-Understand/dp/0517548232)

Superforecasting [link](https://www.amazon.com/Superforecasting-Science-Prediction-TETLOCK-GARDNER/dp/1847947158)

Modern Principles of Economics [link](https://www.amazon.com/Modern-Principles-Economics-Tyler-Cowen/dp/1429278390)

Expected Returns: An Investor's Guide to Harvesting Market Rewards [link](https://www.amazon.com/Expected-Returns-Investors-Harvesting-Rewards/dp/1119990726)

The Little Book of Valuation [link](https://www.amazon.com/Little-Book-Valuation-Company-Profit/dp/1118004779)

## Other

Theory of Knowledge [link](https://www.amazon.com/Theory-Knowledge-Third-Nicholas-Alchin/dp/1471804151)

The Ph.D. Grind: A Ph.D. Student Memoir [link](https://www.goodreads.com/en/book/show/15731248)

Commit message:

DSP in python, and finally some good book on cmake

_pages/books.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: "Books"
author: "Robert"
permalink: /books/
---

Books, textbooks, papers and scripts that i think are worth recommendig. 

## Mathematics

First Course in Probability [link](https://www.amazon.com/First-Course-Probability-9th/dp/032179477X)

Introduction to Probability for Computing [link](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~harchol/Probability/book.html)

A Programmer's Introduction to Mathematics [link](https://pimbook.org/)

Paul's Online Notes [link](https://tutorial.math.lamar.edu/)

All You Wanted to Know about Mathematics but Were Afraid to Ask [link](https://www.math.cmu.edu/~jmackey/151_128/bws_book.pdf)

An Infinitely Large Napkin [link](https://venhance.github.io/napkin/Napkin.pdf)

An Infinite Descent into Pure Mathematics [link](https://infinitedescent.xyz/dl/infdesc.pdf)

The Art and Craft of Problem Solving [link](http://www.gang.umass.edu/~franz/Paul_Zeitz_The_Art_and_Craft_of_Problem_SolvingBookosorg.pdf)

## Physics

Haliday, Resnick, Krane [link](https://www.amazon.com/Physics-1-Robert-Resnick/dp/0471320579)

The Theoretical Minimum [link](https://knzhou.github.io/writing/Minimum.pdf)

Teach Yourself Physics: a travel companion [link](https://www.amazon.com/Teach-Yourself-Physics-travel-companion/dp/3948763003)

How to become a GOOD Theoretical Physicist [link](https://www.goodtheorist.science/index.html)
## Computer Science

### Machine learning

#### Theory oriented

Understanding Deep Learning [link](https://udlbook.github.io/udlbook/)

Deep Learning: Foundations and Concepts [link](https://issuu.com/cmb321/docs/deep_learning_ebook)

The Mathematical Engineering of Deep Learning [link](https://deeplearningmath.org/)

REINFORCEMENT LEARNING AND OPTIMAL CONTROL [link](https://web.mit.edu/dimitrib/www/RLbook.html)

Probabilistic Machine Learning: An Introduction [link](https://probml.github.io/pml-book/book1.html)

Probabilistic Machine Learning: Advanced Topics [link](https://probml.github.io/pml-book/book2.html)

#### Practice

Grokking Deep Learning [link](https://www.amazon.com/Grokking-Deep-Learning-Andrew-Trask/dp/1617293709)

Deep Learning for Coders [link](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Learning-Coders-fastai-PyTorch/dp/1492045527)

Deep Learning with PyTorch [link](https://www.manning.com/books/deep-learning-with-pytorch)

Dive into Deep Learning [link](https://d2l.ai/)

### Compilers
An Incremental Approach to Compiler Construction [link](http://scheme2006.cs.uchicago.edu/11-ghuloum.pdf)

Modern Compiler Implementation in ML [link](https://www.cs.princeton.edu/~appel/modern/ml/)

Essentials of Compilation [link](https://mitpress.mit.edu/9780262048248/essentials-of-compilation/)

Linkers and Loaders [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linkers-Kaufmann-Software-Engineering-Programming/dp/1558604960)

### Algorithms and Data structures

Data Structures for Data-Intensive Applications [link](https://cs-people.bu.edu/mathan/publications/fnt23-athanassoulis.pdf)

Open Data Structures [link](https://opendatastructures.org/)

Competitive Programming [link](https://cpbook.net/)

Competitive Programmer’s Handbook [link](https://cses.fi/book/book.pdf)

Algorithms [link](https://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/teaching/algorithms/)

Algorithms: Prallel and Sequential [link](https://www.umut-acar.org/algorithms-book)

Advanced Algorithms and Data Structures [link](https://freecontent.manning.com/marcello-la-rocca-advanced-algorithms-and-data-structures/)

### Databases

Architecture of a Database System [link](https://dsf.berkeley.edu/papers/fntdb07-architecture.pdf)

SQLite Database System Design and Implementation [link](https://www.sqlite.org/books.html)

Database System Concepts [link](https://www.amazon.com/Database-System-Concepts-Abraham-Silberschatz/dp/1260084507)

Designing Data-Intensive Applications [link](https://www.amazon.com/Designing-Data-Intensive-Applications-Reliable-Maintainable/dp/1449373321)

### Operation Systems

#### System programming

Beej's Guide to Network Programming [link](https://beej.us/guide/bgnet/)

Beej's Guide to C Programming [link](https://beej.us/guide/bgc/)

System Programming coursebook [link](https://github.com/illinois-cs241/coursebook)

Programming from the Ground Up [link](https://www.amazon.com/Programming-Ground-Up-Jonathan-Bartlett/dp/1616100648)

Hacker's Delight [link](https://www.amazon.com/Hackers-Delight-2nd-Henry-Warren/dp/0321842685)

Computer Systems: A Programmer's Perspective [link](https://www.amazon.com/Computer-Systems-Programmers-Perspective-3rd/dp/013409266X)

The Linux Programming Interface [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linux-Programming-Interface-System-Handbook/dp/1593272200)

Advanced Programming in the UNIX Environment [link](https://www.amazon.com/Advanced-Programming-UNIX-Environment-3rd/dp/0321637739)

#### Administration

How Linux Works [link](https://www.amazon.com/How-Linux-Works-Brian-Ward/dp/1718500408)

The Linux Command Line [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linux-Command-Line-2nd-Introduction/dp/1593279523/ref=pd_bxgy_img_sccl_1/143-0695118-1847207?pd_rd_i=1593279523&psc=1)

#### Theory

Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces [link](https://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/)

#### Implementation

xv6: a simple, Unix-like teaching operating system [link](https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/6.S081/2020/xv6/book-riscv-rev1.pdf)

The little book about OS development [link](https://littleosbook.github.io/)

Writing a Simple Operating System — from Scratch [link](https://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~exr/lectures/opsys/10_11/lectures/os-dev.pdf)

#### Linux kernel

Understanding the Linux Kernel [link](https://www.amazon.com/Understanding-Linux-Kernel-Third-Daniel/dp/0596005652)

Linux Device Driver Development [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linux-Device-Driver-Development-development/dp/1803240067)

Linux Device Drivers [link](https://www.amazon.com/Linux-Device-Drivers-Jonathan-Corbet/dp/0596005903/ref=pd_sbs_sccl_3_4/143-0695118-1847207?pd_rd_i=0596005903&psc=1)

The Linux Kernel Module Programming Guide [link](https://sysprog21.github.io/lkmpg/)

A Heavily Commented Linux Kernel Source Code [link](http://www.oldlinux.org/download/ECLK-5.0-WithCover.pdf)

### Other

CMake hands-on workshop [link](https://enccs.github.io/cmake-workshop/)

PySDR: A Guide to SDR and DSP using Python [link](https://pysdr.org/)

The Art of HPC [link](https://theartofhpc.com/)

Web Browser Engineering [link](https://browser.engineering/)

Ray Tracing in One Weekend [link](https://raytracing.github.io/books/RayTracingInOneWeekend.html)

Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs [link](https://web.mit.edu/6.001/6.037/sicp.pdf)

How to Design Programs [link](https://www.amazon.com/How-Design-Programs-Introduction-Programming/dp/0262534800/ref=pd_bxgy_img_sccl_2/143-0695118-1847207?pd_rd_i=0262534800&psc=1)

Elegant Objects [link](https://www.yegor256.com/elegant-objects.html)

The Little Book of Semaphores [link](https://greenteapress.com/wp/semaphores/)


#### Programming Languages

OCaml Programming: Correct + Efficient + Beautiful [link](https://cs3110.github.io/textbook/ocaml_programming.pdf)

C++ Crash Course [link](https://www.amazon.com/C-Crash-Course-Josh-Lospinoso/dp/1593278888)

Modern C++ Programming [link](https://github.com/federico-busato/Modern-CPP-Programming)

## Biology

Campbell Biology [link](https://www.amazon.com/Campbell-Biology-11th-Lisa-Urry/dp/0134093410/ref=pd_bxgy_img_sccl_1/143-0695118-1847207?pd_rd_i=0134093410&psc=1)

## Finance & Economics

Economics in One Lesson [link](https://www.amazon.com/Economics-One-Lesson-Shortest-Understand/dp/0517548232)

Superforecasting [link](https://www.amazon.com/Superforecasting-Science-Prediction-TETLOCK-GARDNER/dp/1847947158)

Modern Principles of Economics [link](https://www.amazon.com/Modern-Principles-Economics-Tyler-Cowen/dp/1429278390)

Expected Returns: An Investor's Guide to Harvesting Market Rewards [link](https://www.amazon.com/Expected-Returns-Investors-Harvesting-Rewards/dp/1119990726)

The Little Book of Valuation [link](https://www.amazon.com/Little-Book-Valuation-Company-Profit/dp/1118004779)

## Other

Theory of Knowledge [link](https://www.amazon.com/Theory-Knowledge-Third-Nicholas-Alchin/dp/1471804151)

The Ph.D. Grind: A Ph.D. Student Memoir [link](https://www.goodreads.com/en/book/show/15731248)
